---
layout: post
title:  "Feeling the vibes part x: Opencurby"
date:   2025-05-09 00:00:01 +1000
image:  /images/maui-ui-july-bg.png
tags:   mobile maui ui
categories: [.NET, Mobile]
---

Welcome to the next post in the #MAUIJuly series!

In earlier posts we saw how we can use ChatGPT to help us design and build a UI in .NET MAUI. The results are impressive, but there are more specialised UI tools out there to help with this kind of work. One of the most popular is [V0 by Vercel](https://v0.dev). Google's competing tool has been making news recently; I gave it a go but found the results less impressive.

While previously I used ChatGPT to translate a nextjs app generated by V0, this time I'm only using AI for the design side. So I've recruited ChatGPT to "consult" for me as a designer. Let's see how that turned out!

## Background

> Note: this is a bit of a story of the _why_ I built this app as it's actually functional beyond just MAUI UI July. If you're just interested in the visuals and the code, feel free to skip this section.
{: .prompt-info }

For this project I wanted to revive an app that has been quite popular but is no longer supported. Across New South Wales, councils have been trialling [Curby](https://curbyit.com), a kerbside collection program for recycling soft plastics. Up until recently these items couldn't be recycled, so plastic bags tended to end up piling up in people's kitchens while other soft plastics just went to landfill.

Notwithstanding a competing service strongly associated with a certain primary colour, these programs have actually been quite successful. My own council recently announced on their Facebook page that the program was leaving the trial phase and would now be a permanent fixture.

There was a mix of reactions to the post, but a strong theme in the comments was "bring back the app". Sadly, the mobile app that was launched a couple of years ago during the first trial has been retired. Not usually the biggest problem in the world, but the program works by providing you with stickers with QR codes ("curby tags") that you attach to a bag of soft plastics before depositing in your regular recycling bin for collection. Before you do this, though, you have to scan the tag.

This actually still works through Curby's mobile-enabled website; but, as I've long told clients, rightly or wrongly users still associate binary apps with trust. Additionally, the website is not a PWA, so even though it actually could (and does) function 100% through the browser, the experience is not optimised.

Thinking that I know a thing or two about building mobile apps, I wondered whether this was something I could reverse engineer it and determine whether a community driven Curby app was feasible. So I opened my browser's dev tools and took at look at the network tab to see what was going on. Turns out, it's actually quite simple - it's a straightforward UI that's making a few simple GraphQL calls. I took note of the schema as far as I could tell, and decided to dive right in.

In hindsight, I should have tried calling the GraphQL endpoints first to see if it would work, but was excited to use it as a MAUI UI July example, and so OpenCurby was born.

## Version 1

At first I decided to stick with ChatGPT. I gave it the context and my notes about the API calls I'd observed and asked it to sketch out an app. It suggested a sensible page structure and navigation flow, so I asked it to keep going.

One of the first questions it asked was whether I wanted to use the default .NET MAUI colours. I said now and gave it a very open-ended brief that the app should be beautiful and simple for anyone to use.

There was a little back-and-forth: not much, mostly sensible follow-up questions, although I did have to ask it for app-wide styles and colours rather than hard-coded values. It built the UI for me, and it was actually pretty good.

It still used `Frame` which is deprecated; in the last post I got it to change this to `Border` but this time I did it myself. It also added a `CornerRadius` property to the `Entry` controls, and later styles. Frankly I think that actually seems sensible, but it's not currently valid.

I removed that with a note to re-add it via a custom control later, but for now built and ran the app.

And it looks pretty good!

I haven't shown the scan page because it's the same style just with a button that launches a QR code scanner (using ZXing). It also gave ne what looks like it would be a nice scan result card control, but I didn't get as far as implementing the scanner to test it.

Instead I decided to try a different approach.

## Version 2

Instead of continuing to use ChatGPT to generate code, which I think we've already seen it has strengths and weaknesses for, I wanted to try a more specialised tool - in this case, V0. I have dabbled with V0 in the past and have gotten mixed results, so this time I wanted to try combining the strengths of these tools.

I asked ChatGPT to act as a consultant; instead of asking it to generate code, I asked it to consider the goals of being simple, beautiful, and accessible, and what design principles we should consider or follow with that in mind.

Than, I asked to consider different categories in the Apple and Google design awards, and which categories would be most relevant to this app, based on what it understands about my goals. And then to pick some recent winners of those categories for inspiration.

with that it narrowed down these categories:

Apple: Delight and Fun, Interaction, and Inclusivity

Google: Best Motion, Best Accessibility

After a bit more back and forth, and giving it some designs I found on Dribbble too for further investigation, I asked it to generate a design brief for a UX and UI designer I could pass it on to. Importantly, I was prioritising UX here, not just UI.

with prompt in hand I went over to V0 and asked it to build something.

Franky, I think the results are stunning.


But...it's in NextJs.

## Version 4

I could at this stage ask ChatGPT to translate the app for me into .NET MAUI, but I know from experience that while it can do it, the results aren't perfect. Instead I wanted to do this one myself.


---notes----

1. HSL to Hex from global CSS
 - Works!!!

2. Gradient colours from tailwind config
   - Works - took me waaaaaaay longer than it would have to just type it all out, but I can reuse this process.

-----

Probably enough boilerplate. Gonna start building the pages now.
